scripts: sbom: Add "west sbom" tool. (#7209)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: scripts/west_commands/sbom/README.rst

.. _west_sbom:

Software Bill of Materials
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) is a :ref:`west <zephyr:west>` extension command that can be invoked by ``west sbom``.
It provides a list of used licenses for an application build or the specific files.

.. note::
    Generating list of licenses from an application build is experimental.
    The accuracy of detection is constantly verified.
    Both implementation and usage may change in the future.

Overview
********

> The SBOM command can be divided into three basic stages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of using the ``sbom`` command involves the following steps:
```

    For more details see `Scancode-Toolkit Installation`_.

Using the command
*****************

The following examples show basic usage. For details, read sections below.

* Get the help by running the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

    west sbom -h

* Analysis of built application and report generation to ``sbom_report.html`` file in the build directory:

  .. code-block:: bash

    west sbom -d <build-directory>

* Analysis of selected files and report generation to HTML file:

  .. code-block:: bash

     west sbom --input-files <file1> <file2> --output-html <file-name.html>

.. _west_sbom Specifying input:

Specifying input
================

Each of the below input options can be specified multiple times to provide more input for the report generation,
for example, produce report for two applications.
They can also be mixed, for example,
produce report for the application and some directory.

* You can get an application SBOM from a build directory with the following option:

  .. code-block:: bash

     -d build_directory

  The ``build_directory`` must be already built with the ``west build`` command using

>   ``Ninja`` as underlying build tool (which is default).

Reviewer 2: Should this sentence be split into two lines?

>   ``Ninja`` as underlying build tool (which is default).

Reviewer: > Should this sentence be split into two lines?

This is just one long sentence. I don't see a need for splitting it.

  .. code-block:: bash

     --ar ~/zephyr-sdk/arm-zephyr-eabi/bin/arm-zephyr-eabi-ar

  The command searches for the files used during the build of ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` target.
  It also requires ``zephyr/zephyr.map`` file created by the linker.

  .. warning::
      All the files that are not dependencies of the ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` target are not taken as an input.
      If the ``.elf`` file was modified after the linking, those modifications will not be taken.

  If you build directory contains more than one output target or it has a different name,
  you can add targets after the ``build_directory``.
  If the ``.map`` file and the associated ``.elf`` file has different names,
  the ``.map`` file can be provided after the ``:`` sign following the target,
  for example:

  .. code-block:: bash

     -d build_directory target1.elf target2.elf:file2.map

  .. warning::
      The ``-d`` option is experimental.

* You can provide list of input files directly on the command line:

  .. code-block:: bash

     --input-files file1 file2 ...

  Each argument of this option can contain globs as defined by `Python's Path.glob`_ with two additions:

>   exclamation mark ``!`` to exclude files and absolute paths.

Reviewer 2: The second addition here is "absolute paths".
Maybe something tile this: `exclamation mark ``!`` to exclude files and support for an absolute paths.`?

>   exclamation mark ``!`` to exclude files and absolute paths.

Reviewer: > The second addition here is "absolute paths". Maybe something tile this: `` exclamation mark ``!`` to exclude files and support for an absolute paths. ``?

Now that the first sentence says there are two additions, it is clearer if you have them as two separate bullets.

  For example, if you want to include all ``.c`` files from current directory
  and all subdirectories recursively:

  .. code-block:: bash

     --input-files '**/*.c'

  Remember to put correct quotes around globs, to make sure that the glob will
  not be resolved by your shell, but it will go untouched to the command.

  You can prefix pattern with the exclamation mark ``!`` to exclude some files.
  Patterns are evaluated from left to right, so ``!`` will exclude files from
  patterns before it, but not after. For example, if you want to include all
  ``.c`` files from current directory and all subdirectories recursively, except
  all ``main.c`` files:

  .. code-block:: bash

     --input-files '**/*.c' '!**/main.c'

* You can read list of input files from a file:

>   .. code-block:: bash
> 
>      --input-list-file list_file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --input-list-file *list_file*
```

  It does the same as ``--input-files``, but it reads files and patterns from
  a file (one file or pattern per line). Files and patterns contained in the
  list file are relative to the list file location (not the current directory).
  Comments starting with the ``#`` are allowed.

.. _west_sbom Specifying output:

Specifying output
=================

> 

Reviewer: Add some sort of an introductory text here before the bullets. For example something like:
You can specify the format of the report output using the ``output`` argument.

> * You can generate HTML report file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To generate a report in HTML format:
```

>   .. code-block:: bash
> 
>      --output-html <file-name.html>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --output-html *file-name.html*
```

>   If you use ``-d`` option, you can skip this option.
>   The ``sbom_report.html`` file will be generated in your build directory
>   (the first one if you specify more than one build directory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you use ``-d`` option, you do not need to specify the report format.
  The :file:`sbom_report.html` file is generated in your build directory
  (the first one if you specify more than one build directory).
```

Author: The user does not need to specify the output at all (not only `the report format`).

I am changing it to:

`If you use ``-d`` option, you do not need to specify any output argument.`

> * Special kind of output is a cache database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To generate a cache database:
```

>   .. code-block:: bash
> 
>      --output-cache-database <cache-database.json>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --output-cache-database *cache-database.json*
```

  For details, see ``cache-database`` detector.

.. _west_sbom Detectors:

Detectors
=========

> The SBOM command has following detectors implemented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``sbom`` command has the following detectors implemented:
```

* ``spdx-tag`` - search for the ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` in the source code or the binary file.
  For guidelines, see `SPDX identifier`_. Enabled by default.

> * ``full-text`` - compare the contents of the source file with the small database of reference texts.
>   The database is part of the SBOM command. Enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``full-text`` - compare the contents of the source file with a small database of reference texts.
  The database is part of the ``sbom`` command. Enabled by default.
```

* ``scancode-toolkit`` - license detection by the `Scancode-Toolkit`_. Enabled and optional by default.

>   If ``scancode`` command is not on your ``PATH``,
>   you can use ``--scancode`` option to provide it, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If the ``scancode`` command is not on your ``PATH``, you can use the ``--scancode`` option to provide it, for example:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

     --scancode ~/scancode-toolkit/scancode

  This detector is optional because is significantly slower than the others.

* ``cache-database`` - use license information detected and cached earlier in the cache database file.
  Disabled by default.

>   You have to provide cache database file with following argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You have to provide the cache database file using the following argument:
```

>   .. code-block:: bash
> 
>      --input-cache-database <cache-database.json>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --input-cache-database *cache-database.json*
```

>   Each database entry has a path relative to the west workspace directory, a hash and a list of detected licenses.
>   If the file under detection has the same path and hash, then the list of licenses from the database is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Each database entry has a path relative to the west workspace directory, a hash, and a list of detected licenses.
  If the file under detection has the same path and hash, the list of licenses from the database is used.
```

  .. note::

>      You can generate the database base on e.g scancode-toolkit detector by running following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     To generate the database based on, for example the scancode-toolkit detector, run the following command:
```

>      .. code-block:: bash
> 
>         west sbom --input-files <files ...> --license-detectors scancode-toolkit --output-cache-database <cache-database.json>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     .. parsed-literal::
        :class: highlight

        west sbom --input-files *files ...* --license-detectors scancode-toolkit --output-cache-database *cache-database.json*
```

> If you prefer a non-default set of detectors,
> you can provide a list of comma separated detectors with the ``--license-detectors`` option, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer a non-default set of detectors, you can provide a list of comma-separated detectors with the ``--license-detectors`` option, for example:
```

  .. code-block:: bash

>      --license-detectors spdx-tag,scancode-toolkit

Reviewer: Does this need a space after the comma?

Reviewer 2: The detector list should be separated only by comma.

> Some of the detectors can be optional which means that they are not executed for file that
> already has licenses detected by some other previously executed detector.
> Detectors are executed from left to right using list provided by the ``--license-detectors``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the detectors are optional, which means that they are not executed for a file that
already has licenses detected by some other previously executed detector.
Detectors are executed from left to right using a list provided by the ``--license-detectors``.
```

  .. code-block:: bash

     --optional-license-detectors scancode-toolkit

> To speed up detection time, some detectors may run in parallel on all available CPU cores.
> Use ``-n`` option to limit number of parallel threads or processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some detectors may run in parallel on all available CPU cores, which speeds up the detection time.
Use the ``-n`` option to limit the number of parallel threads or processes.
```

  (the first one if you specify more than one build directory).

* To generate a cache database:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --output-cache-database *cache-database.json*

  For details, see ``cache-database`` detector.

.. _west_sbom Detectors:

Detectors
=========

The ``ncs-sbom`` command has the following detectors implemented:

* ``spdx-tag`` - search for the ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` in the source code or the binary file.
  For guidelines, see `SPDX identifier`_. Enabled by default.

* ``full-text`` - compare the contents of the source file with a small database of reference texts.
  The database is part of the ``ncs-sbom`` command. Enabled by default.

* ``scancode-toolkit`` - license detection by the `Scancode-Toolkit`_. Enabled and optional by default.

  If the ``scancode`` command is not on your ``PATH``, you can use the ``--scancode`` option to provide it, for example:

  .. code-block:: bash

     --scancode ~/scancode-toolkit/scancode

  This detector is optional because is significantly slower than the others.

* ``external-file`` - search for license information in an external file. Enabled by default.

>   The external file has the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This detector has the following properties:
```

Author: Not `detector`, but the external file that is used by this detector. The `external file` was mentioned in above sentence, so I think it is pretty clear. I would not change this.

>     * It is located in the same directory or any of the parent directories of the file under detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * It is located in the same directory as the file under detection or in one of its parent directories .
```

    * Its name contains ``LICENSE``, ``LICENCE`` or ``COPYING`` (case insensitive).

>     * It has a ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * It has an ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` tag.
```

>     * It has one or more ``NCS-SBOM-Apply-To-File`` tags containing file paths or globs (as defined by the `Python's Path.glob`_).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * It has one or several ``NCS-SBOM-Apply-To-File`` tags containing file paths or globs (as defined by the `Python's Path.glob`_).
```

      They are relative to the external file.

  If any of the ``NCS-SBOM-Apply-To-File`` tags matches the file under detection, the license from the SPDX tag is used, for example:

  .. code-block:: text

     /* The following lines will apply Nordic 5-Clause license to all ".a" files
      * and ".lib" files in the "lib" directory and all its subdirectories.
      *
      * SPDX-License-Identifier: LicenseRef-Nordic-5-Clause
      * NCS-SBOM-Apply-To-File: lib/**/*.a
      * NCS-SBOM-Apply-To-File: lib/**/*.lib
      */

* ``cache-database`` - use license information detected and cached earlier in the cache database file.
  Disabled by default.

>   You have to provide the cache database file using the following argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Provide the cache database file using the following argument:
```

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --input-cache-database *cache-database.json*

  Each database entry has a path relative to the west workspace directory, a hash, and a list of detected licenses.
  If the file under detection has the same path and hash, the list of licenses from the database is used.

  .. note::

>      To generate the database based on, for example the scancode-toolkit detector, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     To generate the database based on, for example the ``scancode-toolkit`` detector, run the following command:
```

     .. parsed-literal::
        :class: highlight

        west ncs-sbom --input-files *files ...* --license-detectors scancode-toolkit --output-cache-database *cache-database.json*

If you prefer a non-default set of detectors, you can provide a list of comma-separated detectors with the ``--license-detectors`` option, for example:

  .. code-block:: bash

     --license-detectors spdx-tag,scancode-toolkit

Some of the detectors are optional, which means that they are not executed for a file that
already has licenses detected by some other previously executed detector.
Detectors are executed from left to right using a list provided by the ``--license-detectors``.

  .. code-block:: bash

     --optional-license-detectors scancode-toolkit

Some detectors may run in parallel on all available CPU cores, which speeds up the detection time.
Use the ``-n`` option to limit the number of parallel threads or processes.

.. _west_sbom HTML report overview:

HTML report overview
********************

The HTML report has following structure:

> * Summary of the report. It contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Summary of the report, containing the following:
```

>    * At the beginning are notes.
>      They will give you some general information that you should pay attention while reading the report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Notes at the beginning.

     General information on the report.
```

>    * The list of inputs.
>      It shows from where this report takes the files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * List of inputs.

     The file sources.
```

>    * The list of licenses.
>      It contains all licenses detected in the input files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * List of licenses.

     All licenses detected in the input files.
```

>    * The list of added license texts.
>      If a license is not in the `SPDX License List`_ and we have it in our internal database,
>      the license text will be added to the report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * List of added license texts.

     If a license is not in the `SPDX License List`_ and it is in the internal database,
     the license text is added to the report.
```

>   You can click links in the summary to get more details about specific item.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can click links in the summary to get more details about specific items.
```

> * List of files without any license information or with license information that cannot be detected automatically.
>   You have to investigate them manually to get the license information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* List of files without any license information or with license information that cannot be detected automatically.

  You have to investigate them manually to get the license information.
```

* Details about each detected license:

>    * License identifier
>    * Information if it is a standard SPDX license
>    * License name if available
>    * Link to license text or more details if available
>    * All files from the input covered by this license

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * License identifier.
   * Information if it is a standard SPDX license.
   * License name if available.
   * Link to license text or more details if available.
   * All files from the input covered by this license.
```

* License texts added to this report.

.. _west_sbom Extracting from build:

> Extracting list of files from a build directory
> ***********************************************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extracting a list of files from a build directory
*************************************************
```

> The ``ncs-sbom`` extracts a list of files from a build directory by querying the ``ninja`` about its targets and dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``ncs-sbom`` extracts a list of files from a build directory.
It queries ``ninja`` for the targets and dependencies.
```

> The entry point is the ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The entry point is the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` target file.
```

> The script asks ``ninja`` for all input targets of the ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script asks ``ninja`` for all input targets of the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` target.
```

> Next, it asks for all input targets of the previously extracted input targets,
> and so on until it reaches all leaves in the dependency tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also asks for all input targets of the previously extracted input targets,
until it reaches all leaves in the dependency tree.
```

The result is a list of all the leaves.

> You can change the target or specify multiple targets by adding them after the build directory in the ``-d`` option, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the target or specify multiple targets, you can add them after the build directory in the ``-d`` option, for example:
```

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   -d build_directory *target1.elf* *target2.elf*

> Two redundant methods for increasing the correctness of the above algorithm are implemented:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two redundant methods for improving the correctness of the above algorithm:
``

> * Each library is examined using the GNU ``ar`` tool.
>   If the list of files returned by the GNU ``ar`` tool is covered by the list returned from the ``ninja``,
>   the list is assumed to be valid.
>   Otherwise, the library is assumed to be a leaf, so it is shown in the report and its inputs are not analyzed further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each library is examined using the GNU ``ar`` tool.

  If the list of files returned by the GNU ``ar`` tool is covered by the list returned from the ``ninja``, the list is assumed to be valid.
  Otherwise, the library is assumed to be a leaf, so it is shown in the report and its inputs are not analyzed further.
```

> * The ``ncs-sbom`` pareses the :file:`.map` file created during the ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` linking.
>   It gives a list of all object files and libraries linked into ``zephyr/zephyr.elf``.
>   The script ends with a fatal error if some file in the :file:`.map` file is not visible by the ``ninja``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``ncs-sbom`` pareses the :file:`.map` file created during the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` linking.

  It gives a list of all object files and libraries linked to the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` file.
  The script ends with a fatal error if any file in the :file:`.map` file is not visible by ``ninja``.
```

.. _west_sbom:

Software Bill of Materials
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) is a :ref:`west <zephyr:west>` extension command that can be invoked by ``west ncs-sbom``.
It provides a list of used licenses for an application build or the specific files.

.. note::
    Generating list of licenses from an application build is experimental.
    The accuracy of detection is constantly verified.
    Both implementation and usage may change in the future.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

Overview
********

The process of using the ``ncs-sbom`` command involves the following steps:

#. Create list of input files based on provided command line arguments,
   for example, all source files used for building a specific application.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Specifying input`.

#. Detect the license applied to each file,
   for example, read `SPDX identifier`_ from ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` tag.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Detectors`.

#. Create output report containing all the files and license information related to them,
   for example, write a report file in HTML format.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Specifying output`.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

Use the following command to install the requirements.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Windows

      Enter the following command in a command-line window in the :file:`ncs` folder:

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

           pip3 install -r nrf/scripts/requirements-west-ncs-sbom.txt

   .. group-tab:: Linux

      Enter the following command in a terminal window in the :file:`ncs` folder:

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

           pip3 install --user -r nrf/scripts/requirements-west-ncs-sbom.txt

   .. group-tab:: macOS

      Enter the following command in a terminal window in the :file:`ncs` folder:

        .. parsed-literal::
           :class: highlight

           pip3 install -r nrf/scripts/requirements-west-ncs-sbom.txt

.. note::
    The ``ncs-sbom`` command uses the `Scancode-Toolkit`_ that requires additional dependencies to be installed on a Linux system.
    To install the required tools on Ubuntu, run::

      sudo apt install python-dev bzip2 xz-utils zlib1g libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libpopt0

    For more details, see `Scancode-Toolkit Installation`_.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

Using the command
*****************

The following examples demonstrate the basic usage of the ``ncs-sbom`` command.

* To see the help, run the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

    west ncs-sbom -h

* To get an analysis of the built application and generate a report to the ``sbom_report.html`` file in the build directory, run:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

      west ncs-sbom -d *build-directory*

* To analyze the selected files and generate a report to an HTML file, run:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     west ncs-sbom --input-files *file1* *file2* --output-html *file-name.html*

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

.. _west_sbom Specifying input:

Specifying input
================

You can specify all input options several times to provide more input for the report generation, for example, generate a report for two applications.
You can also mix them, for example, to generate a report for the application and some directory.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

* You can read a list of input files from a file:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --input-list-file *list_file*

  It does the same as ``--input-files``, but it reads files and patterns from a file (one file or pattern per line).
  Files and patterns contained in the list file are relative to the list file location (not the current directory).
  Comments starting with a ``#`` character are allowed.

.. _west_sbom Specifying output:

Specifying output
=================

You can specify the format of the report output using the ``output`` argument.

* To generate a report in HTML format:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --output-html *file-name.html*

  :ref:`west_sbom HTML report overview` provides more details about the report.

  If you use ``-d`` option, you do not need to specify the report format.
  The :file:`sbom_report.html` file is generated in your build directory
  (the first one if you specify more than one build directory).

* To generate a cache database:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     --output-cache-database *cache-database.json*

  For details, see ``cache-database`` detector.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

* Each library is examined using the GNU ``ar`` tool.
  If the list of files returned by the GNU ``ar`` tool is covered by the list returned from the ``ninja``,
  the list is assumed to be valid.
  Otherwise, the library is assumed to be a leaf, so it is shown in the report and its inputs are not analyzed further.

* The ``ncs-sbom`` pareses the :file:`.map` file created during the ``zephyr/zephyr.elf`` linking.
  It gives a list of all object files and libraries linked into ``zephyr/zephyr.elf``.
  The script ends with a fatal error if some file in the :file:`.map` file is not visible by the ``ninja``.

  Exceptions are the runtime and standard libraries.
  You can specify the list of exceptions with the ``--allowed-in-map-file-only`` option.
  By default, it contains a few common names for the runtime and standard libraries.

  If the :file:`.map` file and the associated :file:`.elf` file have different names,
  you can provide the :file:`.map` file after the ``:`` sign following the target,
  for example:

  .. parsed-literal::
     :class: highlight

     -d build_directory *target.elf*:*file.map*

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line.

.. _west_sbom:

Software Bill of Materials
##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) is a :ref:`west <zephyr:west>` extension command that can be invoked by ``west ncs-sbom``.

> It provides a list of used licenses for an application build or the specific files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides a list of used licenses for an application build or specific files.
```

.. note::
    Generating a list of licenses from an application build is experimental.
    The accuracy of detection is constantly verified.
    Both implementation and usage may change in the future.

Overview
********

The process of using the ``ncs-sbom`` command involves the following steps:

#. Create a list of input files based on provided command-line arguments,
   for example, all source files used for building a specific application.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Specifying input`.

#. Detect the license applied to each file,
   for example, read `SPDX identifier`_ from ``SPDX-License-Identifier`` tag.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Detectors`.

#. Create an output report containing all the files and license information related to them,
   for example, write a report file in HTML format.
   For details, see :ref:`west_sbom Specifying output`.

Requirements
************

The ``ncs-sbom`` command requires installation of additional Python packages.

> Use the following command to install the requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a command appropriate for your operating system to install the requirements.
```

Author: The commands are shown in a tabs for each operating system. For developer, it is pretty obvious what he should do, so in my opinion stating the obvious is not needed here, but if you think that it is better that way, then ok.

  You have to investigate them manually to get the license information.

* Details about each detected license:

   * License identifier.
   * Information if it is a standard SPDX license.
   * License name if available.
   * Link to license text or more details if available.
   * All files from the input covered by this license.

* License texts added to this report.

.. _west_sbom Extracting from build:

Extracting a list of files from a build directory
*************************************************

The ``ncs-sbom`` extracts a list of files from a build directory.
It queries ``ninja`` for the targets and dependencies.

The entry point is the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` target file.
The script asks ``ninja`` for all input targets of the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` target.
It also asks for all input targets of the previously extracted input targets,
until it reaches all leaves in the dependency tree.
The result is a list of all the leaves.

To change the target or specify multiple targets, you can add them after the build directory in the ``-d`` option, for example:

.. parsed-literal::
   :class: highlight

   -d build_directory *target1.elf* *target2.elf*

> There are two redundant methods for improving the correctness of the above algorithm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two alternative methods for improving the correctness of the above algorithm:
```

Author: In this context `redundancy` does not mean the same as `alternative`.

Reviewer: Okay. How about "additional"?

> ``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* Each library is examined using the GNU ``ar`` tool.

  If the list of files returned by the GNU ``ar`` tool is covered by the list returned from the ``ninja``, the list is assumed to be valid.
  Otherwise, the library is assumed to be a leaf, so it is shown in the report and its inputs are not analyzed further.

> * The ``ncs-sbom`` pareses the :file:`.map` file created during the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` linking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The ``ncs-sbom`` parses the :file:`.map` file created during the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` linking.
```

>   It gives a list of all object files and libraries linked to the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It provides a list of all object files and libraries linked to the :file:`zephyr/zephyr.elf` file.
```
